✨ Add classNamespace to topology (#11352)
kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api: docs/book/src/tasks/experimental-features/cluster-class/write-clusterclass.md

        template: "{{ .cluster.name }}-{{ .machinePool.topologyName }}-{{ .random }}"
```

### Defining a custom namespace for ClusterClass object

As a user, I may need to create a `Cluster` from a `ClusterClass` object that exists only in a different namespace. To uniquely identify the `ClusterClass`, a `NamespacedName` ref is constructed from combination of:
* `cluster.spec.topology.classNamespace` - namespace of the `ClusterClass` object.
* `cluster.spec.topology.class` - name of the `ClusterClass` object.

Example of the `Cluster` object with the `name/namespace` reference:

```yaml
apiVersion: cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Cluster
metadata:
  name: my-docker-cluster
  namespace: default
spec:
  topology:
    class: docker-clusterclass-v0.1.0
    classNamespace: default
    version: v1.22.4
    controlPlane:
      replicas: 3
    workers:
      machineDeployments:
      - class: default-worker
        name: md-0
        replicas: 4
        failureDomain: region
```

> <aside class="note warning">
> 
> <h1>Cluster rebase across namespaces</h1>
> 
> Changing `classNamespace` is not supported in rebase procedure, while changing `class` reference to a different `ClusterClass` from the same namespace performs regular `Cluster` rebase procedure.
> 
> </aside>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Thanks for noticing it, that would be confusing :)

        template: "{{ .cluster.name }}-{{ .machinePool.topologyName }}-{{ .random }}"
```

### Defining a custom namespace for ClusterClass object

> When referencing a `ClusterClass` from a `Cluster`, user may want to reuse existing template from a `Cluster` in a different namespace. To uniquely identify the `ClusterClass`, a `NamespaceName` ref is constructed from combination of:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a user, I may need to create a `Cluster` from a `ClusterClass` object that exists only in a different namespace. To uniquely identify the `ClusterClass`, a `NamespaceName` ref is constructed from combination of:
```
This is just a suggestion but I think this could be reworded to make it clearer. What do you think?

* `cluster.spec.topology.classNamespace` - namespace of the `ClusterClass` object.
* `cluster.spec.topology.class` - name of the `ClusterClass` object.

Example of the `Cluster` object with the `name/namespace` reference:

```yaml
apiVersion: cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Cluster
metadata:
  name: my-docker-cluster
  namespace: default
spec:
  topology:
    class: docker-clusterclass-v0.1.0
    classNamespace: default
    version: v1.22.4
    controlPlane:
      replicas: 3
    workers:
      machineDeployments:
      - class: default-worker
        name: md-0
        replicas: 4
        failureDomain: region
```

#### Securing cross-namespace reference to the ClusterClass

> It is often desirable to restrict free cross-namespace `ClusterClass` access for the `Cluster` object. This can be implemented by defining a [`ValidatingAdmissionPolicy`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/validating-admission-policy/) on the `Cluster` object.

Reviewer 3: do we have any rbac recommendation for this?

Author: VAP supports [secondary authz](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/blob/master/keps/sig-api-machinery/3488-cel-admission-control/README.md#secondary-authz) for added RBAC control, and VAP binding can be used with label selectors, which addresses https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/issues/5673#issuecomment-1140291675. From the proposal itself, it seems using the policy for added restriction on top of RBAC is within the scope.

Webhook allows to use paramRef of any kind, which can be potentially explored with specific CRD to further restrict access beyond admission, with a controller acting on that resource.

Currently, this is just an example of how an on top policy can be defined (if needed) in k8s 1.30+, where a user may decide to use different policy mechanisms to further restrict access, including a more granular RBAC. I’m thinking to showcase it as an option, but to not enforce any specific solution within this PR.

Reviewer 4: @enxebre can this comment be resolved?

        template: "{{ .cluster.name }}-{{ .machinePool.topologyName }}-{{ .random }}"
```

### Defining a custom namespace for ClusterClass object

> As a user, I may need to create a `Cluster` from a `ClusterClass` object that exists only in a different namespace. To uniquely identify the `ClusterClass`, a `NamespaceName` ref is constructed from combination of:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
As a user, I may need to create a `Cluster` from a `ClusterClass` object that exists only in a different namespace. To uniquely identify the `ClusterClass`, a `NamespacedName` ref is constructed from combination of:
```

* `cluster.spec.topology.classNamespace` - namespace of the `ClusterClass` object.
* `cluster.spec.topology.class` - name of the `ClusterClass` object.

Example of the `Cluster` object with the `name/namespace` reference:

```yaml
apiVersion: cluster.x-k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Cluster
metadata:
  name: my-docker-cluster
  namespace: default
spec:
  topology:
    class: docker-clusterclass-v0.1.0
    classNamespace: default
    version: v1.22.4
    controlPlane:
      replicas: 3
    workers:
      machineDeployments:
      - class: default-worker
        name: md-0
        replicas: 4
        failureDomain: region
```

<aside class="note warning">

<h1>Cluster rebase across namespaces</h1>

> Changing `classNamespace` is not supported in rebase procedure, while chanding `class` reference to a different `ClusterClass` from the same namespace performs regular `Cluster` rebase procedure.

Reviewer 6: Might be I'm wrong, but I did not found a place where we are enforcing "Changing `classNamespace` is not supported".
Also, out of curiosity, why are we introducing this limitation?

Author: That’s mainly due to tests performed on that operation locally. It seems when changing `classNamespace`, many referenced template components change namespace too, as they have to preserve ownership references, and instead of `rebase` performing minimal modifications of the resource, it has to switch resources entirely. This seemed as a larger scope change.

I’ll add a validation on the field modifications.

Reviewer 6: Thanks clarification
It would be great if we can add the same note as a godoc explanation for check above

Author: I composed a clarification message on the field. It seems there is no need for additional tests as `TestLocalObjectTemplatesAreCompatible` is already covering template namespace changes.

Reviewer: I added another comment already but I didn't see validation for this. To be honest I'm really wondering what's going on here. Rebase across namespaces shouldn't lead to problems

Author: This is the validation message I’m seeing if I switch `test` ns to `default`:
```
The Cluster "capi-quickstart" is invalid: 
* spec.infrastructure.ref.namespace: Forbidden: templates must be in the same namespace as the ClusterClass (test)
* spec.controlPlane.ref.namespace: Forbidden: templates must be in the same namespace as the ClusterClass (test)
* spec.controlPlane.machineInfrastructure.ref.namespace: Forbidden: templates must be in the same namespace as the ClusterClass (test)
* spec.workers.machineDeployments[0].ref.namespace: Forbidden: templates must be in the same namespace as the ClusterClass (test)
* spec.workers.machinePools[0].ref.namespace: Forbidden: templates must be in the same namespace as the ClusterClass (test)
```
which comes from `LocalObjectTemplatesAreInSameNamespace` used by `ClusterClassesAreCompatible` which is the entirety of the validation. Disabling this does not trigger updates to the each dependent object ref `namespace` from `test` to `default`.

Reviewer: I'm a bit confused by your comment :D. But I know the whole thing is complex and our implementation as well.

I think it's correct to drop this validation. Example:

```
NS: old-cc-namespace
* CC:
  * KubeadmControlPlaneTemplate
  * DockerClusterTemplate
  * ...

NS: new-cc-namespace
* CC:
  * KubeadmControlPlaneTemplate
  * DockerClusterTemplate
  * ...

NS: default
* Cluster
  * KubeadmControlPlane
  * DockerCluster
```

When we now rebase a Cluster from the CC in old-cc-namespace to the CC in new-cc-namespace the only thing that changes is where the Cluster topology controller reads the ClusterClass and the referenced templates from. The Cluster and it's referenced objects will just stay in the default namespace

Reviewer 6: + to drop the check if this was the only blocker for rebase cross ns

> Changing `classNamespace` is not supported in rebase procedure, while chanding `class` reference to a different `ClusterClass` from the same namespace performs regular `Cluster` rebase procedure.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Changing `classNamespace` is not supported in rebase procedure, while changing `class` reference to a different `ClusterClass` from the same namespace performs regular `Cluster` rebase procedure.
```

> Class namespace referenced in the `Cluster` object is equivalent to a cluster being located in the referenced namespace from the validation perspective. Changing `classNamespace` is not allowed, while using a different `CluterClass` from the same namespace is permitted in the Cluster rebase procedure.

Reviewer 6: nit
```suggestion
Class namespace referenced in the `Cluster` object is equivalent to a cluster being located in the referenced namespace from the validation perspective. Changing `classNamespace` is not allowed, while using a different `ClusterClass` from the same namespace is permitted in the Cluster rebase procedure.
```

Also, thinking about:

> Class namespace referenced in the `Cluster` object is equivalent to a cluster being located in the referenced namespace from the validation perspective

I'm not sure if we are surfacing an implementation detail or if we are trying to surface something the users should care about

</aside>

#### Securing cross-namespace reference to the ClusterClass

It is often desirable to restrict free cross-namespace `ClusterClass` access for the `Cluster` object. This can be implemented by defining a [`ValidatingAdmissionPolicy`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/validating-admission-policy/) on the `Cluster` object.

An example of such policy may be:

```yaml
apiVersion: admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1
kind: ValidatingAdmissionPolicy
metadata:
  name: "cluster-class-ref.cluster.x-k8s.io"
spec:
  failurePolicy: Fail
  paramKind:
    apiVersion: v1
    kind: Secret
  matchConstraints:
    resourceRules:
    - apiGroups:   ["cluster.x-k8s.io"]
      apiVersions: ["v1beta1"]
      operations:  ["CREATE", "UPDATE"]
      resources:   ["clusters"]
  validations:
    - expression: "!has(object.spec.topology.classNamespace) || object.spec.topology.classNamespace in params.data"
---
apiVersion: admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1
kind: ValidatingAdmissionPolicyBinding
metadata:
  name: "cluster-class-ref-binding.cluster.x-k8s.io"
spec:
  policyName: "cluster-class-ref.cluster.x-k8s.io"
  validationActions: [Deny]
  paramRef:

>     name: "ref-list"

Reviewer 6: might be
```suggestion
    name: "allowed-namespaces.cluster-class-ref.cluster.x-k8s.io"
```
(if we want to keep the "domain like" name, otherwise something with "allowed namespaces)
